In this video, we start our journey in
the business analytics by learning how to
think about analytical problems.
If you're watching this video chances
are you already have an analytical mindset
in a inquisitive nature.
That's great, because the best analyst are
people who really love understanding how
things work and
who can create clarity out of chaos.
Knowledge and experience are key
to the analytical process.
And you apply a variety of skills and
analytical method to
the problems you solve.
However, what happens all too often is
that the analysis doesn't lead anywhere.
Meaning that it doesn't
stimulate action or
change an action that would
have taken place anyway.
In these cases we question whether
we should have done analysis
in the first place.
There's also a key distinction between the
analytics we do in the business world and
the analytics that might be
done in science in Academia.
In business, we need a clear
return on the investment we make
in analytical people and
the tools that support them.
And knowledge itself,
while certainly valuable,
doesn't justify that an investment unless
we can show it making a difference in
the decisions we make to run the business.
We also operate in a resource
constrained environment.
There is never enough time or money
to do all the things we'd like to do.
So we need to be focused in determining
what things we do and how we do them.
The good news is that there's a pretty
simple principle that we can apply to make
sure that our analytical process
is efficient and effective.
Specifically we think backwards, meaning
we start with the decision we want to make
then we consider the information
needed to make that decision.
It's an idea crossly related to
the hypothesis drive approach used in
scientific reasearch.
Where we start with something
specific we think is true,
then we design an experiment to test
the hypothesis that it really is true.
To do this effectively, you need context.
You need to understand enough
about the business and
about how decisions are made to
understand what's really important, and
what's most likely to sway
a decision one way or the other.
The first question to ask is whether
you can perform an analysis that will
actually influence a meaningful decision.
If you can say something like
if my analysis shows outcome
x I'll do one thing, and if it shows
outcome y I'll do something else, and
the choice I make matters,
then you're in good shape.
If you discover that you probably make the
same decision regardless of the outcome or
that the decision itself really
isn't all that important
then you should reconsider
investing in an analysis.
The next thing you should think about
is what the output of your analysis
would look like.
What sort of story would I
expect to be able to tell?
How would I actually see outcome x or
outcome y in the data?
Is there a specific chart or graph
that would illustrate the difference?
The more specific you can
describe the output, the better.
You might even sketch out what your final
presentation will look like in advance.
Going through this process not only
assures that you have a really good idea
of what you need to accomplish, it's also
a great way to share your intentions with
other stakeholders in the process and
get their buy-in before work even begins.
With the clear view of the output in mind,
you can start thinking
about the analysis itself.
What methods will you need to apply?
What tools will you need?
As we'll see later in the course,
there are lot of different
ways to work with data.
Some of them simple, others more complex.
A good guiding principle is
that simpler is often better.
What is the most straight forward
way of getting to the answer.
While you shouldn't be afraid to use
complex methods when they're needed,
over complicating your analysis can make
your results much harder to explain and
harder to sell to stakeholders
when you're done.
Okay, now that we know what kind
of analysis you intend to do,
we need to consider where we're going
to get the data required to do it.
We'll actually spend a good part of this
module talking about where data comes
from, but there are a couple of key ideas
you want to consider at this point.
First is it possible that
the whole thing is already done.
Even the best analytic organization
sometimes duplicate work.
Before investing a lot of time and
energy it's a good idea to
ask around to see if someone else
has done this analysis before.
Or if someone has already assembled
the data you need to do the analysis.
If they have, you've just saved
yourself a lot of unnecessary work.
Assuming you are on to something new,
you want to outline each type of
data you need in your analysis and
determine whether it exists within the new
organization and how you mean to get it.
If you're lucky, everything you need
is already been brought into a common
location like a data warehouse or
business intelligence environment.
If so, it may just be a simple matter
of extracting it for analysis.
However, it's often the case that not
everything you need is so easy to get.
So you'll have to think about what steps
are necessary to actually get the data.
And whether it's even feasible to do it.
In some cases, you may need to reach
outside your business for the data.
And there may be cases where you have to
set up an experiment or other research
process to actually generate the data
required hired for analysis.
You also need to think about the time
required to get the data and
accomplish the analysis, and
ensure that the timeline and
investment continue to make sense in terms
of the business decision you need to make.
If you need an answer by Friday,
and the analysis will take
two weeks to accomplish,
you need to find a different approach.
Once you've determined that you
can get everything you need, and
your timeline is good,
it's time to get going.
You can now proceed with collecting data,
performing the analysis,
getting the result and
making that business decision that
leads to the action you hope to take.
As we go through the course,
you'll find that we cover things a little
more traditionally, from beginning to end.
In fact we'll introduce something called
the information action value chain.
Which starts with events
in the real world, and
ends with an action in the marketplace.
But in terms of how you attack
the analytic problem in front of you,
remember to think backwards.
Start with the decisions you want to make,
determine what analysis outputs
would help make that decision.
Design the analysis that
creates those outputs, and
determine what data is needed for
analysis and how to get it.
Then and only then are you ready to begin.
See you next time.